A post reflecting on what you’ve enjoyed studying this year

During my second year at the University of Birmingham, I studied a variety of modules ranging from Software Engineering to Mathematical Modelling and Decision Making. However, the module that stood out the most was Systems Programming in C/C++. I love low level programming, therefore I highly enjoyed learning about how Operating Systems handle the more hidden aspects of modern computing such as memory management, cache utilization, and processing speed. Although as time goes on developers tend to prioritise development speed rather than execution speed, I strongly believe that both have their own respective applications and both are equally valuable.

A post looking to the future that discusses what you’re looking forward to learning about in the upcoming academic year.

The single most influential factor that will make the largest difference in how we live our everyday lives is Artificial Intelligence. It's already present in all areas of life, anything from search engines and all the way to self-driving cars. However, I believe it is possible to go even further and automate most of the repetitive challenges that we are faced with today. Automating mundane tasks would allow us to progress much faster as a civilization. Therefore, I am eager to learn more about such an impactful area of Computer Science.

A post discussing how your site is structured and in your own words a description of how Django works.

This website is primarily developed as University Coursework. The main piece of software used all throughout the site is Django - a versatile Python Web Framework capable of producing feature-rich websites in minimal amounts of time. This site consists of two Django apps: programming themed blog, and a personal CV. The blog is reachable by navigating to '/' and the CV is reachable by navigating to '/cv/'. The site utilizes an authentication system provided by Django, therefore allowing visitors to view the site, and providing additional capablities to the site admin, such as creating, editing, and deleting content. Internally, both aforementioned apps consist of three main parts: urls, views, and templates. Urls are mapped to functions called views, which do some processing, and render a template for the user to interact with. Overall, Django is a great solution to quickly develop feature-rich websites.

Please include a blog post on how you used TDD to develop this

Test Driven Development (TDD) is a different way of programming. The main idea of TDD is to write a test which tests whether the code works, and only then to write the actual code. Seeing the test fail, writing the code, and then seeing the test pass is all an important part of TDD. There are two types of tests: functional tests, and unit tests. Functional tests test the functionality from the perspective of the user. This can be accomplished by using Selenium, a highly effective solution for browser automation. Unit tests are different - they test the functionality from the perspective of the programmer. Sometimes this involves mocking up certain parts of the website (eg. the database) to make tests that test very small pieces of code (functions, or even individual lines). For example, the CV app on this site was built using TDD. First of all, a test that checks whether it's possible to add a new Skill was written. Only then the functionality to add a new Skill was developed.
